Remember why you wanted to get into health
in the first place? Was it to help others? Was it to improve
the quality of people's lives? Then don't ever forget that.
People down here, I mean I even had my friends who were substance
users down here, they came up to me and said, dude, you cannot,
you have to stop. And you know, they're not talking about them, they're
talking about me. I was like, dude, please, let go. From '83 to
'93 I was in and out of the area, but from 1993 to
2013 I never left a two block radius and really hung out right
in front of Insight, before it was Insight.
And went through the first dueling public health emergency,
which was the HIV/AIDS crisis in the '90s and also the overdose crisis.
I've lost many friends to HIV/AIDS and many friends to overdose.
Getting me to go to the hospital for bone infections was like,
I had to be nearly dead to get me there.
And the reality is, is even when I go out there,
I wasn't treated fairly as a person or as an individual.
I was treated as a drug seeking individual. And even with all
the pain meds, and this is a true story, while I was in
St. Paul's Hospital and I had the infection
in my leg, the doctor prescribed me with lots of morphine,
methadone, breakthroughs, all these medications and I continued to use heroin.
And he approached me one day in my room and said,
"We give you all these drugs to help and you continue to use
heroin." And I said, "I'll explain it to you." I said,
the drugs that you give me help me with the physical pain,
but this drug helps me with the emotional void
that's in my soul. And he couldn't understand that and he discharged me
with an active bone infection in my leg, saying that the antibiotics won't
work because I won't stop using heroin. And
that to me really showed just how egregious some people are and the
treatment that substance users get. And it was the main reason of why
I never went back and was one of the main reasons why CTCT was developed
in the downtown Eastside. And when I did go to CTCT, they said
to me, "We don't care that you use drugs.
All we care about is that you're here every four hours to get
your antibiotics. If you have drugs and you want to use drugs,
you can use them in your room. We just want to save your
leg." You believe the lies that you hear everybody say to you in
your life. Obviously the verbal abuse, I think verbal abuse in my life
is so crippling as a person is that even if somebody criticized me
in a way, even somebody gave me a compliment, I felt so
gross inside, so hard for me to accept that.
I just didn't believe it. And it's because you were often told that
you were a piece of garbage, not only from your childhood,
but then you reflect on that from how society treats you.
And so I carried that. That is a heavy burden for people to
carry. And at that moment, that was somewhat
released where it made me think, like, maybe there's more to it
than just what people keep thinking it is.
Because inside I knew what I was going through and the pain.
I just didn't trust people to talk to.
So what my suggestion would be to somebody who's new to health care
or working in health care is this. You have to put yourselves
in people's shoes and to understand, even if your life, imagine if you
had a job and you had no place to live
and you had no car and you had no food, but you still
had a job and you're sleeping in a shelter and now you're hungry
and you have to go to work. Like put yourself in somebody's shoes.
Just you don't have to put yourself exactly in their shoes.
But imagine if we eliminated some things out of your life,
especially your housing. And then or if you're going to school,
all these things where if you eliminate or put these challenges in your
life, how would you react to them? How would you respond?
You have to go to work. It's like, but you have no housing,
you know, or where are you going to get your next meal?
What about your belongings? Where are they going to stay?
And one of the biggest things that I've often remembered throughout my journey
is this, is I've never forgotten how you made me feel.
And remember that. I'll always remember the ones that treated me good,
but I'll also always remember the ones that didn't.
It's funny now when I come down here, people are like,
oh, I know you're doing good. And I'm like, how so?
And they're like, I've seen you smile more times in five minutes than I
did the whole 20 years I knew you. And for my friends,
that's really how special it is for me because,
I broke bread with them for decades. And
we shared a lot of our struggles. And just to have them here
for me, it's just, it's powerful.